= Unmaintained

NOTE: This project has been abandoned. Use https://github.com/postmodern/ffi-hunspell instead.

However, the code is still available on the {master branch}[https://github.com/ahx/hunspell-ffi/tree/foo].




= hunspell-ffi

A Ruby FFI interface to the Hunspell spelling checker.

"Hunspell is the spell checker of OpenOffice.org and Mozilla Firefox 3 & Thunderbird, Google Chrome, and it is also used by proprietary softwares, like Mac OS X, memoQ, Opera and SDL Trados."
 - http://hunspell.sourceforge.net/

It should work wherever Ruby FFI works (tested on Ruby 1.9.2, 1.8.7, JRuby 1.5.1).

This should be a drop-in replacement for rhunspell (https://github.com/tiendung/rhunspell), but using ffi.

== Installation
=== Install Hunspell
On Mac OS X: Hunspell (libhunspell) is already installed on OSX 10.6.

On Debian:
 apt-get install hunspell

=== Install the Gem
  gem install hunspell-ffi

== Usage

  require 'hunspell-ffi'

  # Detect language from ENV:
  dict = Hunspell.new("/path/to/dictionaries")

  # Directly specify language:
  dict = Hunspell.new("/path/to/dictionaries", "en_US")

  # directly specify dictionaries (legacy)
  dict = Hunspell.new("path/to/dictionaries/en_US.aff", "path/to/dictionaries/en_US.dic")

  dict.spell("walked")        # => true  same as #check, #check?
  dict.spell("woked")         # => false
  dict.check?("woked")        # => false
  dict.suggest("woked")       # => ["woke", "worked", "waked", "woken", ...]
  dict.suggest("qwss43easd")  # => []

  dict.stem("Baumkuchen")     # => ["Baumkuchen"]
  dict.analyze("Baumkuchen")  # => [" st:Baumkuchen"]

  # Modify the run-time dictionary:
  dict.add("Geburtstagskuchen")
  dict.remove("Fichte")

== Authors
Andreas Haller and contributors.
Full list of contributors: https://github.com/ahx/hunspell-ffi/contributors

== License
Hereby placed under public domain, do what you want, just do not hold me accountable.

== Help wanted
Maybe we can think of a nice way to find to locate .dict files on a system or something.
Anyways, feel free to fork and send pull requests. kthxbye. Andreas.

The source is on GitHub: https://github.com/ahx/hunspell-ffi

=== TODOs
Test on Windows
